# Modeling the Wireless Propagation Channel
This book deals with several issues related to the wireless propagation channel using a simulation approach. This means thatwe will be generating synthetic, but realistic, series of relevant propagation parameters as a function of time or traversed distance. It is hoped that this will allow the reader to become acquainted with this topic in a simpler, more intuitive way than by using cumbersome mathematical formulations. This will be done in a step-by-step fashion whereby new concepts will be presented as we progress in our familiarization process with the wireless propagation channel.

This book will reproduce the characteristics of the wanted and interfering signals and especially their dynamics. Thus, time series will be generated in most of the projects proposed. Sometimes, the term ‘time series’ will be used indistinctly for series with the abscissas in time units and in length units (traveled distance), thus explicitly showing the time and/or location variability in the received signal, or in the propagation channel parameters of interest: power, voltage, phase, attenuation, frequency response, impulse response, etc. The procedure followed in all chapters will be to first define a propagation scenario, either statistically or geometrically, then generate one or several time series and, finally, perform a statistical analysis of the produced series, in order to extract relevant parameters from which conclusions may be drawn. Only in Chapter 1 we will be using series already produced using simulators from other chapters.
